The following errors/suggestions exist for the version of the text from July 27, 2017.

Section 1.6 problems #7 and # 18 have inconsistent solutions.  If the function in problem 19 is considered continuous at x = 0, then that provides a counterexample to the idea of problem 7 (if we take the one-sided limit from the LEFT, since the function in problem 19 is undefined to the left of 0 – the one-sided limit does not exist). A strict reading of the definitions would suggest that #19 is not continuous at x=0, but that seems overly technical.  Maybe just change the function in #19 so that it’s also defined for x<0.

Section 2.1 is much longer than the other sections – Maybe it should be split into two sections or some of the material put into other sections. - Not really that much longer

Section 2.1.  Piecewise functions play a large role in section 2.1, so there should be some homework problems that use piecewise functions there. - Only a few piecewise problems

Section 2.5 solutions.  In the solution to homework problem #17 replace 1/t^3 with 1/t^2 - can't locate

Section 3.3.  Example 2  Should include endpoints for increasing and decreasing intervals:  Increasing on (-infty, -1], [3, infty),  decreasing on [-1, 1), (1, 3]. - so many places

Section 4.2  Optimization.  Needs more problems.  Could use more complicated examples/problems as well.  There should be some problems where the domain is not a closed interval. - true

Section 10.3 Definition 49 Consider writing a definition for the tangent line that works in all cases, without going through weird case distinctions and add-ons.  This would also fit better with the definition of tangent planes later in the book. - done

Figure 11.1 is not helpful as it doesn’t show the coordinate axes. - done

Definition 51 should get a justification from the Pythagorean theorem. - done

Figure 11.6 would look better if the blue plane would not stop exactly at the z-axis and if the tip of the x-axis would “stick out”.  Mention the general drawing trick: if a plane is parallel to a coordinate axis, draw grid lines parallel to that axis onto the plane.  Also draw an example of an oblique plane. - todo'd

On p.638, graphing surfaces of revolution, it should be pointed out that the equation y=sqrt(x) is to be taken as a curve in the xy-plane, not as a cylinder!

On p.649 in the introduction to vectors, “with magnitude and direction parameters”:  I would avoid the word “parameters”  because it was used extensively for parametric equations. “an object that is characterized by its magnitude and direction”. - done

Def 56:  The word “scalar” needs to be explained. Also, I would not use the term “scalar product” here, because most authors use this as synonymous with “dot product”. - done

p.653 The sentence “It follows from the properties of the real numbers” introduction vector subtraction is incorrect: vector subtraction is a definition. - true

Section 11.2 Example 6 (and several other similar examples and exercises) need a short physics crash course:  forces are vectors and in particular add like vectors; an object is at rest iff all acting forces add up to the zero vector; force = mass times acceleration; the force of gravity near the surface of the earth is such that the acceleration of every object is 9.8 m/s^2. - todo

Thm 88 could need some justification, maybe in the form of an exercise, where the 2-D version of the theorem would be derived from the trigonometric addition theorems. - which one?  11.3.2?

In example 11.4.1, when checking the orthogonality, I would include one more step in the computation of the dot product, just to review the definition. - done

On p.677, I would explain 2x2 determinants. - done?

Figure 11.40 is not helpful. Why is the plane there? It’s not possible to discern where vectors u and v lie.  A right hand would also help. - Fig 11.4.1

P.683 line 5: “volume of parallelepiped” -> “volume of the parallelepiped”

Def 65: what does it mean that a line passes through a vector?  The line passes through the point (x0,y0,z0), not through the vector <x0,y0,z0>. - done

Example 11.5.3: mention that it is important to use different letters for the two parameters here. - done

Solution of Example 11.5.4: determining whether two vectors are parallel should not be done by computing unit vectors, as that involves square roots.  Just compute the cross product or ask whether the second vector is a scalar multiple of the first vector. - done

Example 11.6.4: Faster solution: once we know y=1/2(3x-1), we can plug it into z=2x-y-2 to get both y and z in terms of x, and we can use x as our parameter for the intersection line.

Def 70: this concept seems nonstandard and not very useful. A “rate” shouldn’t be a vector. - Def 12.1.6 - stet

Def 73: maybe point out the difference: derivative at t=c is a vector; derivative is a vector-valued function. Otherwise this seems pointless. - done

Example 12.2.9: Maybe better formulation:  find the function r(t) with the three properties… - done

The important theorem being used here that allows the reconstruction of a vector-valued function from its derivative and initial value needs its own box. - where?  what would it say?

P.731 line 3: Concept of position function is not clear. A vector does not determine a position. We need to introduce the concept of a “position vector”:  The position vector of point P is the vector OP. That way every point determines a unique vector and every vector determines a unique point. - todo

P.734 “acceleration acting on a mass induces a force (gravity gives our mass a weight).” This is not helpful. An acceleration doesn’t act on an object; an object undergoes acceleration, and this acceleration is induced by a force acting on the object.  Gravity is not an acceleration but a force; it would induce an acceleration were it not for the counteracting force of the ground acting on our feet. - done

Example 12.3.4:  this motion is more properly called a “helix”; spirals are plane curves. - done

P.736 bottom: I realize it’s probably not going to happen, but I would really like this text to use SI units throughout, just like physics texts do.

Key Idea 58: why does half of this box use v, the other half r’ ? - done

Fig 13.4: the labeling of the level curves is not nice; maybe use different colors for the different levels? - todo

p.785 bottom right: the alternative notations for the partial derivatives are too important to hide them away in a little margin note. - done

Exercise 13.5.3 cannot be solved as stated; we need to give the relevant assumptions/notations. - done

Thm 114 Part 3: the level curve passes through (x0,y0), not through (x0,y0,f(x0,y0)). - T13.6.2 - done

13.6 Exercises: use some examples with the exponential function and some involving the product/quotient/chain rules, so that students get to review these. - considering

Problems 13.7 instructions: “tangent lines/normal lines/tangent planes to the graph of f”, not “… to f” - done

Problem 13.7.24 cannot be solved as the point P does not lie on the given surface. - done

Def 99: disk D needs to be a subset of S. In part 3, “extrema” should be “extremum” - done

p.869 line -4 “This last integral is easy to evaluate with substitution”:  carry it out, since integration by substitution hasn’t appeared in a long time. - done

Section 13.9: I would like some justification/motivation for the Lagrange multiplier method, which would reinforce the geometric meaning of the gradient.  Also we need some more problems with three unknowns. - already todo'd

Example 14.3.2 solution: “straightforward to show”:  better tell the reader where this has been done before, so that they can look it up if they don’t remember. - done

Example 14.3.3 solution: mention substitution rule - ?

Figure 14.33 what is the red line for? The grid lines on the plane are also strange. - done; grid still present

Problems 14.5:  f(x,y) is not a surface; its graph z=f(x,y) is a surface. - done

Example 14.6.4: definition of D is not clear; we want only the part where z is non-negative. - done

sections 14.7 onward were completely changed for the current edition

p.929: mention that in the formula W=F * d, the force must act in the direction of the displacement. - moot

Figure 15.2 is unclear, as the 3-d nature is not made clear. - moot

Also, we should mention somewhere that these integrals compute signed areas, negative if f is below the curve. - done

Def 113: In section 12.1, vector valued functions were usually written with the notation <M,N>; by now students may have forgotten the i,j unit vectors.  Best to stick to one notation throughout. - moot

p.934 line 9: why give the definition of exact forms here? It’s not motivated. Would fit better in Thm 138. - moot

p.934 line -3:  the force doesn’t have to move the object.  Suppose f describes a force field, and we’re moving an object along curve C in that force field. Then the line integral is the work we gain (or have to expend) while doing so. - done

Exercises 15.1:  line integrals of the form \int M dx + N dy show up in the text but not in the exercises. - done

Thm 135: Assumption that “R has no holes” is not needed, as is shown by the proof.  Mention the similarity to the fundamental theorem of Calculus (though this theorem is not as powerful, since not all vector fields are conservative [even though the most important physical fields are]). - moot

Thm 136: the region can have holes. Avoid line breaks in the middle of an integral. - moot

Exercises 15.2: needs more examples of finding potentials. - done

Thm 137: mention physical interpretation: curl of a vector field of fluid velocities. - done

Thm 138 and 145: why add the parenthesis to point 4? It’s true for all 4 points and fits best with point 1. - moot

p.962 line 4:  The term “diverges” doesn’t explain much.  Maybe use the picture of sinks/sources in a flowing water, whose velocity field is f. - moot

Thm 143: S may have holes. - moot

‘spherical coordinates’ and ‘L’Hopital’s Rule’ are missing from the index - done

Weird bug: if I search the PDF file for the text “initial”, I don’t get any hits, even though “initial value” occurs often. If I copy and paste the word “initial” from the PDF, I get iniƟal - that's TeX

In the PDF Table of Contents, the entries for “Solutions to selected exercises” and “Index”  should not be part of the chapter “Calculus III”.
